Document vcpkg-make port. (#278)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/maintainers/functions/vcpkg_make_install.md

---
title: vcpkg_make_install
description: Use vcpkg_make_install to build and install a Make-based project.
ms.date: 01/31/2024
---
# vcpkg_make_install

Build and install a Make-based project.

## Usage

```cmake
vcpkg_make_install(
    [DISABLE_PARALLEL]
    [DISABLE_DESTDIR]
    [DISABLE_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING]
    [USE_RESPONSE_FILES]
    [LOGFILE_ROOT <root-name>]
    [SUBPATH <sub-directory>]
    [MAKEFILE <makefile-name>]
    [TARGETS <target-name>...]
    [OPTIONS <make-option>...]
    [OPTIONS_RELEASE <make-option>...]
    [OPTIONS_DEBUG <make-option>...]
)
```

To use this function, you must depend on the helper port `vcpkg-make`:

```json
"dependencies": [
  {
    "name": "vcpkg-make",
    "host": true
  }
]
```

## Parameters

### ADD_BIN_TO_PATH

> Adds the configure dependent `(debug/)bin` directory to the system path. This is useful if configure builds and runs executables with vcpkg integrated dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds the configure dependent `(debug/)bin` directory to the system path. This is useful if configure builds and runs executables with shared dependencies.
```

### DISABLE_PARALLEL

> Disables parallel building. By default, `make` is called with `-j` to parallelize the build. Use this if the project does not support parallel building.

Reviewer 2: "`-j`" might be misunderstood as a literal `-j` without the number of allowed parallel jobs.

### DISABLE_DESTDIR

By default, `make install` will use the `DESTDIR` variable to redirect installation to the package directory. Use this flag if `DESTDIR` should not be set.

> ### DISABLE_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING

Reviewer: Should this refer to the same-named option in `vcpkg_make_configure`?

What happens if they don't match (enabled in configure, disabled here, or vice-versa)?

Prevents escaping of MSVC flags. Use this if the project's makefiles do not expect escaped flags.

> ### USE_RESPONSE_FILES

Reviewer: Ditto above questions on USE_RESPONSE_FILES.

Enables the use of response files for passing arguments to `make`, circumventing command line length limits on some platforms.

### LOGFILE_ROOT

Specifies the base name for log files generated by the build. Defaults to "make".

> ### SUBPATH

Reviewer: What's the default if unspecified?

Specifies a sub-directory within the source tree where the makefile is located or where the build should be executed.

### MAKEFILE

Specifies the name of the makefile to use. Defaults to "Makefile".

### TARGETS

Specifies the targets to pass to make. Defaults to "all;install".

> ### SHELL

Reviewer: This sounds like a triplet setting -- under what circumstances would a port know to set this?

---
title: vcpkg_make_install
description: Use vcpkg_make_install to build and install a Make-based project.
ms.date: 01/31/2024
---
# vcpkg_make_install

Build and install a Make-based project.

## Usage

```cmake
vcpkg_make_install(
    [ADD_BIN_TO_PATH]
    [DISABLE_PARALLEL]
    [NO_DESTDIR]
    [NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING]
    [USE_RESPONSE_FILES]
    [LOGFILE_ROOT <root-name>]
    [SUBPATH <sub-directory>]
    [MAKEFILE <makefile-name>]
    [TARGETS <target-name>...]
    [SHELL <shell>]
    [OPTIONS <make-option>...]
    [OPTIONS_RELEASE <make-option>...]
    [OPTIONS_DEBUG <make-option>...]
)
```

To use this function, you must depend on the helper port `vcpkg-make`:

```json
"dependencies": [
  {
    "name": "vcpkg-make",
    "host": true
  }
]
```

## Parameters

### ADD_BIN_TO_PATH

> Adds the `bin` directory to the `PATH` during the build. This is useful when executables from the build are required for subsequent build steps.

Reviewer 3: same as above

### DISABLE_PARALLEL

Disables parallel building. By default, `make` is called with `-j` to parallelize the build. Use this if the project does not support parallel building.

### NO_DESTDIR

By default, `make install` will use the `DESTDIR` variable to redirect installation to the package directory. Use this flag if `DESTDIR` should not be set.

### NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING

Prevents escaping of MSVC flags. Use this if the project's makefiles do not expect escaped flags.

### USE_RESPONSE_FILES

Enables the use of response files for passing arguments to `make`, circumventing command line length limits on some platforms.

### LOGFILE_ROOT

Specifies the base name for log files generated by the build. Defaults to "make".

### SUBPATH

Specifies a sub-directory within the source tree where the makefile is located or where the build should be executed.

### MAKEFILE

Specifies the name of the makefile to use. Defaults to "Makefile".

### TARGETS

Specifies the targets to pass to make. Defaults to "all;install".

### SHELL

> Specifies the shell to use for running `make`. Useful for environments where the default shell might not be compatible with the makefiles.

Reviewer 3: same as above
